1. Installed vs code, installed related extensions of python, git , jupyter notebook, etc. Till here we are good to run python commands with jupyter notebook support.

2. 
2.1 Created a folder of working directory. Created virtual environment in it using code :
(code): python -m venv myvenv

2.2 Activate the venv using:
(code): myvenv\Scripts\activate

3. Initilised git in the present wording directory.

4. Installed pyspark package using code in vs code terminal at our environment (myenv):
(code): pip install pyspark

5. Now tried running code. This FAILED to even create a SparkSession for me. The reason after asking chatgpt i found was JAVA was not installed and the code was trying to hit JAVA to process it, since Java Runtime Env is required to execute the pyspark code. 

So the solution chatgpt suggested me to verify if I have java installe first of all, if no install it, if yes, check the syste variable are correctly set or not.

I found java was not set, so installed it using "OpenJdk" (which is free, as Oracle has started charging for java now).

NOTE - We had to install "JDK" not the "JRE". I personally installed JDK8. While installing itself it asked me to set the variables and path, so i dont have to bother about it myself. The path where it got installed was something like this : "C:\Program Files\OpenLogic\jdk-8.0.432.06-hotspot".

This same varibale was present as a system-variable in Environment-variable also but with name "path", although chatgpt suggested me it should be "JAVA_HOME" (the name of the varibale). See below quote from chatgpt:

(quote): Yes, the Path variable you see with the value C:\Program Files\OpenLogic\jdk-8.0.432.06-hotspot\bin is exactly what I was referring to! It seems the JDK installer automatically added it for you during installation, which is great because you don’t need to do it manually.


6. Finally I installed it and ran the code, "java -version" and got the output as this:
(code output):
(myenv) PS C:\Users\Ankit\Desktop\try_env> java -version
openjdk version "1.8.0_432-432"
OpenJDK Runtime Environment (build 1.8.0_432-432-b06)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 25.432-b06, mixed mode)


7. Hurray! Code ran and I got the output of csv file as well.


